Archive snippet (#1641)
seqan/seqan3: doc/howto/use_cereal/index.md

# How to serialise SeqAn data structures {#howto_use_cereal}

[TOC]

This HowTo shows how to serialise data structures with [cereal](https://uscilab.github.io/cereal/). Every SeqAn data
structure which is is marked as cerealisable can be used.

\tutorial_head{Easy, 15 min, No prerequisites , }

# Motivation

Storing and loading data, for example a [FM-Index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FM-index), is a common use case. Thanks
 to the cereal library doing so is incredible easy.  This page will show you how to use cereal in SeqAn. As an example
data structure we will use a `std::vector`, but as already mentioned, any SeqAn data structure that is documented
as cerealisable can be used.

# Storing

Storing a data structure is as easy as using the `cereal::BinaryOutputArchive`.
In order to use it, you need to include

\snippet doc/howto/use_cereal/store.hpp binary_include

Note that stl data types, like `std::vector`, are not automatically usable with cereal. You need to include the

> respective header, e.g. \snippet doc/howto/use_cereal/store.hpp vector_include

Reviewer: I would put the snippet include on a new line for visibility? :nail_care:

> # How to use cereal {#howto_use_cereal}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to serialise SeqAn data structures {#howto_use_cereal}
```

[TOC]

> This HowTo documents how to use cereal to load from an archive or store into one. Every SeqAn data structure which is

Reviewer: I don't think people know what an archive is 
```suggestion
This HowTo shows how to serialise data structures with [cereal](https://uscilab.github.io/cereal/). Every SeqAn data structure which is
```

marked as cerealisable can be used.

\tutorial_head{Easy, 15 min, , }

# Motivation

> Storing and loading already existing indices is a common use case, thanks to the cereal library doing so is incredible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storing and loading data, for example a [FM-Index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FM-index), is a common use case. Thanks to the cereal library doing so is incredible
```

> easy. This page will show you how to use cereal in SeqAn for one example. As example data structure std::vector was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
easy. This page will show you how to use cereal in SeqAn. As an example data structure we will use a `std::vector`
```

> picked, but as already mentioned any SeqAn data structure that is documented as cerealisable can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
picked, but as already mentioned, any SeqAn data structure that is documented as cerealisable can be used.
```

# Storing

Storing a data structure is as easy as using the `cereal::BinaryOutputArchive`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storing a data structure is as easy as using the `cereal::BinaryOutputArchive`.
In order to use it, you need to include

\snippet /foo/bar.hpp binary_include

Note that stl data types, like `std::vector`, are not automatically usable with cereal. You need to include the respective header, e.g. 

\snippet foo/bar.hpp vector_include

In SeqAn, our data structures have integrated cereal support so there is no need to include an extra header.
```

```cpp

> #include <fstream>

Reviewer: These need to be actual snippets! (foo/bar.hpp)

#include <vector>

> #include <cereal/archives/binary.hpp>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <cereal/archives/binary.hpp> // includes the cereal::BinaryOutputArchive
```

> #include <cereal/types/vector.hpp>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <cereal/types/vector.hpp> // includes cerealisation support for std::vector
```

#include <seqan3/core/concept/cereal.hpp>
#include <seqan3/std/filesystem>

// Written for std::vector, other types also work.
void store(std::vector<int16_t> const & data, std::filesystem::path tmp_file)
{
    std::ofstream os(tmp_file, std::ios::binary); // Where output should be stored.

>     cereal::BinaryOutputArchive archive(os);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cereal::BinaryOutputArchive archive(os);        // create an ouput archive from the output stream
```

    archive(data);                                // Store data.
}

int main()
{
    std::filesystem::path tmp_file = std::filesystem::temp_directory_path()/"data.out"; // Get temp file.

>     store({1,2,3,4}, tmp_file);                                                         // Calls store on a std::vector.

Reviewer: Although this is short, it might be a little confusing if people do not know about aggregate initialisation

```suggestion
    std::vector v{1,2,3,4};
    store(v, tmp_file);                                                         // Calls store on a std::vector.
```

>     std::filesystem::remove(tmp_file);                                                  // Remove the temporary file.

Reviewer: This might not be intuitive in this tutorial as it suggests you should actually delete the file afterwards :smile: 
You can use the seqan3::test::tmp_filename instead as it deletes itself when deconstructing. Just document it as `this is a temporary file, use any other filename`

    return 0;
}
```

# Loading

Loading a data structure is as easy as using the `cereal::BinaryInputArchive`.

```cpp

> #include <fstream>

Reviewer: Should also be a snippet and please add more comments :)

    cereal::BinaryInputArchive archive(is);
    archive(data);                                // Load data.
}

// Written for std::vector, other types also work.
void store(std::vector<int16_t> const & data, std::filesystem::path tmp_file)
{
    std::ofstream os(tmp_file, std::ios::binary); // Where output should be stored.
    cereal::BinaryOutputArchive archive(os);
    archive(data);                                // Store data.
}

int main()
{
    std::filesystem::path tmp_file = std::filesystem::temp_directory_path()/"data.out"; // Get temp file.

    store({1,2,3,4}, tmp_file);                                                         // Calls store on a std::vector.
    std::vector<int16_t> vec;
    load(vec, tmp_file);                                                                 // Calls load on a std::vector.

    seqan3::debug_stream << vec << '\n';                                                // Prints [1,2,3,4].

    std::filesystem::remove(tmp_file);                                                  // Remove the temporary file.
    return 0;
}

```

# Storing & Loading in the same function

> In the example above loading and storing was encapsulated in separated functions, it is possible to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above loading and storing was encapsulated in separated functions. It is possible to use
```

> `cereal::BinaryInputArchive` and `cereal::BinaryOutputArchive` in one function, but it is necessary to encapsulate them then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cereal::BinaryInputArchive` and `cereal::BinaryOutputArchive` in one function, but then it is necessary to encapsulate each
```

> with {}, otherwise one might encounter errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in an individual scope (using extra braces`{}`). The reason for this is that the output/input stream handle of an archive is closed on deconstruction and only then is the file properly written an accessible by another filehandle.
```
